# FootballPricing

 The use of multivariate analysis (MVA) techniques have not been exhaustively used in the domain of football. In more recent publications, the use of clustering, factor analysis and optimisation have been used in the domain of football. The literature often does not extend much further than this at the mention of multivariate analysis techniques. This has introduced one fundamental idea behind this study, which is to explore the potential benefits of interlacing these techniques in the analysis of football related data. Another crucial point is the ability to objectively assess the market value and rating of football players. Market value in prior years has been evaluated by professionals and more recently by crowdsourcing, which are both very stringent approaches to the evaluation of market value, but are also two very subjective views, making them both irreproducible. A major aim of this study is to use data driven methods to invoke reproducibility of these measures and to suggest ways in which to ultimately remove the bias in this prediction of market value. Player rating is also a very important factor as it interlinks very closely to what a players’ true market value should be. This study makes use of principle component analysis and robust principle component analysis to reduce the dimensionality of the data; following this, hierarchical clustering and k-means clustering are use to examine the behaviour of the observations; biclustering, a method, which has not been used in football before is employed to assess modules present in the data; finally, methods of prediction are utilised to reproduce the valuations made by crowdsourcing and FIFA.
